Cross-Hand Latent Representation for Vision-Language-Action Models
CVPR 2026
Guangqi Jiang* , Yutong Liang* , Jianglong Ye , Jia-Yang Huang , Changwei Jing , Rocky Duan , Pieter Abbeel , Xiaolong Wang† , Xueyan Zou†
UC San Diego · Amazon FAR · UC Berkeley
* Equal Contribution † Equal Advising
XL-VLA is a vision-language-action framework for dexterous manipulation that learns an embodiment-invariant latent action space shared across diverse dexterous hands. This enables training a single policy on pooled multi-hand demonstrations and transferring to new hand–task configurations with minimal friction.
Data scaling: large-scale teleoperation dataset with 10 tasks across 4 dexterous hands (Ability, Inspire, X-Hand1, Paxini DexH13), totaling ~2M state-action pairs.
Cross-hand latent actions: an unsupervised latent autoencoder learns a unified action representation that can be decoded into different hand joint spaces.
VLA integration: XL-VLA plugs the latent action space into a standard VLA architecture to predict one latent action chunk per step and decode it into hand-specific joint trajectories.
Zero-shot generalization: stronger transfer to unseen hand–task combinations compared to raw-joint baselines.
Cross-embodiment scaling: performance improves more as demonstrations are scaled across more hand embodiments with unified latent actions, similar to scaling with more data from a single hand.
Some videos are accelerated.
XL-VLA learns a shared latent action space across dexterous hands and trains a single VLA policy to predict latent action chunks that are decoded into each hand’s joint trajectories.
Per-hand encoders/decoders: map between raw joint actions and a shared latent space.
Latent chunk prediction: the VLA predicts a single latent vector per step instead of tokenizing high-rate dexterous control in raw joint space.
We design 10 manipulation tasks and collect large-scale teleoperation demonstrations across multiple dexterous hand embodiments.
We evaluate our policy on unseen novel hand tasks. The hand-task combination is unseen during training.
Unitree G1 Demos
We co-train humanoid data with tabletop data, and find co-training with shared latent action space outperforms training with raw actions.
xArm tabletop arms also show cross-embodiment scaling with latent action space, similar with G1.
Below we show the sequence decoded from latent action space, retargeting to multiple target embodiments.
X-Hand1 (3x)
Inspire (3x)
Paxini DexH13 (3x)
All (3x w/ Rerun)
@article{jiang2026cross, title={Cross-Hand Latent Representation for Vision-Language-Action Models}, author={Jiang, Guangqi and Liang, Yutong and Ye, Jianglong and Huang, Jia-Yang and Jing, Changwei and Duan, Rocky and Abbeel, Pieter and Wang, Xiaolong and Zou, Xueyan}, journal={arXiv preprint}, year={2026} }